about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About
---

<img src="{{ site.profile.icon.aaron }}" alt="Profile" />

<div class="message">
  Hi, I'm Aaron Oman.  My online handle is GrooveStomp.
</div>

## Professional Summary
- Using GNU/Linux since 2007
- Writing software since 2005
- Writing Ruby since 2011
- Unbounce (3.5yrs), Gossamer Threads (2.5yrs), Electronic Arts (3.5yrs)
- Currently employed at Mogo as a Senior Developer

## Personal Summary
- Writing C/C++ since 2000
- Programming since 1998
- Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science

## More
I like programming, boardgames, videogames, the great outdoors and I love my family.

In terms of software, I am a huge language geek.  Lisps, stack-based languages,
functional languages; static typing, dynamic typing, strong typing, weak typing;
concurrency, parallelism; parsing, datastructures - any one of these topics
is a rich field of research and I like it all.

Beyond more academic pursuits like language development, I am significantly interested
in privacy and security.  There are huge gains to be made in terms of ease of use
for broader adoption of privacy and security standards like PGP encryption of email,
OTR messaging, full disk encryption and encrypted calls.

Professionally I try to exemplify those principles that I value most.  This includes
being courteous and honest, clearly communicating with all peers, and acting fairly and directly
regardless of title or experience.

## PGP Public Key
```
Key ID:      CACEA58E
Fingerprint: 0610 9DBF 721E 88AA DA7D
             E981 4E63 DBF7 CACE A58E
Type:        RSA
Strength:    4096
Created:     2014-02-25
```

Commit message:

Add updated GPG fingerprint and notes about programming projects

about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About
---

<img src="{{ site.profile.icon.aaron }}" alt="Profile" />

<div class="message">
  Hi, I'm Aaron Oman.  My online handle is GrooveStomp.
</div>

## Professional Summary
- Using GNU/Linux since 2007
- Writing software since 2005
- Writing Ruby since 2011
- Unbounce (3.5yrs), Gossamer Threads (2.5yrs), Electronic Arts (3.5yrs)
- Currently employed at Mogo as a Senior Developer

## Personal Summary
- Writing C/C++ since 2000
- Programming since 1998
- Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science

## More
I like programming, boardgames, videogames, the great outdoors and I love my family.

In terms of software, I am a huge language geek.  Lisps, stack-based languages,
functional languages; static typing, dynamic typing, strong typing, weak typing;
concurrency, parallelism; parsing, datastructures - any one of these topics
is a rich field of research and I like it all.

Beyond more academic pursuits like language development, I am significantly interested
in privacy and security.  There are huge gains to be made in terms of ease of use
for broader adoption of privacy and security standards like PGP encryption of email,
OTR messaging, full disk encryption and encrypted calls.

Professionally I try to exemplify those principles that I value most.  This includes
being courteous and honest, clearly communicating with all peers, and acting fairly and directly
regardless of title or experience.

## Programming
If you want to see what I've been up to, then I strongly urge you to see my [daily programming practice on BitBucket](https://bitbucket.org/GrooveStomp/practice/src).
It's not quite every day, but I'm updating several times a week and exploring many concepts.<br/>
For more in-depth work, see other projects listed there. Of specific note are my [software rasterizer](https://bitbucket.org/GrooveStomp/software-renderer/src) and my [C lexer](https://bitbucket.org/GrooveStomp/c-lexer/src).

## PGP Public Key
```
↳ gpg --fingerprint 8ED3DC87
pub   2048R/8ED3DC87 2016-01-14 [expires: 2017-01-13]
      Key fingerprint = 850C 66AF CDDE A396 A862  A2A6 88C8 88E4 8ED3 DC87
uid                  Aaron Oman (GrooveStomp) <aaronoman@protonmail.com>
sub   2048R/600C9EE6 2016-01-14 [expires: 2017-01-13]
```
