content/about.md, before:

---
title: About
type: page
---

My name is Aaron Oman and I am a senior software developer specializing in
backend development for cloud-native applications.  I've been using Ruby as my
primary language for the last 10 years, but I actively practice C and Go as
well.

I program for fun, splitting my limited personal time between weightlifting and
[personal projects](/projects/).

I entered the industry due to my enthusiasm for computer games and 3d graphics.
I work as a backend cloud engineer, primarily in Ruby and Go.  For personal
projecs I leverage C and Zig.

I have a strong personal interest in libre hardware and software, privacy and
security.  I am a big fan of [Purism](https://puri.sm/why-purism/) and
[System76](https://blog.system76.com/post/179592732883/system76-on-us-manufacturing-and-open-hardware)
for how they are working towards more openness. I am very interested in
[RISC-V](https://riscv.org/why-risc-v/).

I am inspired by [The Unix Philosophy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_philosophy) and am heavily influenced by
[Casey Muratori](https://caseymuratori.com/blog_0015).  I have found [Brian Will](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QM1iUe6IofM&t=27s)'s videos to reflect well on my own thinking.  Given infinite time, I would dive into [Plan9](https://9p.io/plan9/about.html) and live there instead of Linux or BSD.

## Code

- [GitHub](https://github.com/groovestomp)

## Contact

- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/aaronoman)

## Resume

- [Generic Cover Letter](/generic_cover_letter_2018-12.pdf) (December 2018)
- [Resume](/resume_2019-08.pdf) (August 2019)

## Professional Summary

|Company         |Duration              |Title                    |Responsibilities|Languages and Technologies|
|----------------|----------------------|-------------------------|----------------|--------------------------|
|Mogo            |July 2019 - Present   |Senior Software Developer|Application development, tools and infrastructure.|Go, Ruby, RabbitMQ, MySQL, AWS|
|Lendesk         |2 Years               |Senior Software Developer|Application development and tools.|Elixir, Go, NodeJS, PostgreSQL, Redis, Ruby on Rails, AWS|
|Lendesk         |9 months              |Team Lead                |1:1s, sprint planning, ticket grooming, team management, cross-team coordination, code reviews, hiring interviews, process improvement, bug fixes, addressing technical debt, improve system architecture.|Elixir, Go, NodeJS, PostgreSQL, Redis, Ruby on Rails, AWS|
|Mogo            |2.8 Years             |Senior Software Developer|Application development, tools and infrastructure.|Go, Ruby, RabbitMQ, MySQL, AWS|
|Unbounce        |3.5 Years             |API Lead                 |Design, implement and support HTTP API. Integrations with 3rd parties.|Java, Javascript, MySQL, Ruby on Rails, AWS|
|Gossamer Threads|2.5 Years             |Programmer               |In-house forum and website software customizations for clients.|MySQL, Perl, PHP|
|Electronic Arts |3.5 Years             |Software Engineer        |3d pipeline maintenance, gameplay prototyping, audio programming, animation programming, front-end programming.|ActionScript, C++, C#, Maya|

<br/>

| Date | Accomplishment / Event |
|------|----------------|
| 2019 | Returned to Mogo |
| 2019 | Stepped back into an IC role |
| 2018 | Promoted to Team Lead at Lendesk |
| 2017 | Joined Lendesk as a Senior Software Developer (Ruby/Go) |
| 2016 | Started programming in Go |
| 2015 | Started programming in C (primarily C99) |
| 2014 | Joined Mogo as a Senior Software Developer (Ruby) |
| 2011 | Joined Unbounce as the first employee (Ruby) |
| 2010 | Returned to EA as a junior front-end software developer (ActionScript) |
| 2007 | Joined Gossamer Threads as a full stack web developer (Perl/Javascript) |
| 2007 | Started programming in Perl |
| 2007 | Started using GNU/Linux for development and minor system administration |
| 2005 | Joined EA as a junior software developer (C++) |
| 2005 | Earned Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science |
| 2000 | Started programming in C++ |
| 1998 | Started programming in Pascal and using HTML/Javascript |

Commit message:

More tweaks affecting multiple areas
- Minor update to About page adding new achievements and including Odin along with Zig
- Minor update to Projects page indicating intended usage of Odin along with Zig
- Finally removed empty "Posts" section on main index
- Removed unused layouts/section/post.html template
- Removed unused float-container CSS

content/about.md, after:

---
title: About
type: page
---

My name is Aaron Oman and I am a senior software developer specializing in
backend development for cloud-native applications.  I've been using Ruby as my
primary language for the last 10 years, but I actively practice C and Go as
well.

I program for fun, splitting my limited personal time between weightlifting and
[personal projects](/projects/).

I entered the industry due to my enthusiasm for computer games and 3d graphics.
I work as a backend cloud engineer, primarily in Ruby and Go.  For personal
projecs I leverage C and am looking to use Zig and Odin.

I have a strong personal interest in libre hardware and software, privacy and
security.  I am a big fan of [Purism](https://puri.sm/why-purism/) and
[System76](https://blog.system76.com/post/179592732883/system76-on-us-manufacturing-and-open-hardware)
for how they are working towards more openness. I am very interested in
[RISC-V](https://riscv.org/why-risc-v/).

I am inspired by [The Unix Philosophy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_philosophy) and am heavily influenced by
[Casey Muratori](https://caseymuratori.com/blog_0015).  I have found [Brian Will](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QM1iUe6IofM&t=27s)'s videos to reflect well on my own thinking.  Given infinite time, I would dive into [Plan9](https://9p.io/plan9/about.html) and live there instead of Linux or BSD.

## Code

- [GitHub](https://github.com/groovestomp)

## Contact

- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/aaronoman)

## Resume

- [Generic Cover Letter](/generic_cover_letter_2018-12.pdf) (December 2018)
- [Resume](/resume_2019-08.pdf) (August 2019)

## Professional Summary

|Company         |Duration              |Title                    |Responsibilities|Languages and Technologies|
|----------------|----------------------|-------------------------|----------------|--------------------------|
|Mogo            |July 2019 - Present   |Senior Software Developer|Application development, tools and infrastructure.|Go, Ruby, RabbitMQ, MySQL, AWS|
|Lendesk         |2 Years               |Senior Software Developer|Application development and tools.|Elixir, Go, NodeJS, PostgreSQL, Redis, Ruby on Rails, AWS|
|Lendesk         |9 months              |Team Lead                |1:1s, sprint planning, ticket grooming, team management, cross-team coordination, code reviews, hiring interviews, process improvement, bug fixes, addressing technical debt, improve system architecture.|Elixir, Go, NodeJS, PostgreSQL, Redis, Ruby on Rails, AWS|
|Mogo            |2.8 Years             |Senior Software Developer|Application development, tools and infrastructure.|Go, Ruby, RabbitMQ, MySQL, AWS|
|Unbounce        |3.5 Years             |API Lead                 |Design, implement and support HTTP API. Integrations with 3rd parties.|Java, Javascript, MySQL, Ruby on Rails, AWS|
|Gossamer Threads|2.5 Years             |Programmer               |In-house forum and website software customizations for clients.|MySQL, Perl, PHP|
|Electronic Arts |3.5 Years             |Software Engineer        |3d pipeline maintenance, gameplay prototyping, audio programming, animation programming, front-end programming.|ActionScript, C++, C#, Maya|

<br/>

| Date | Accomplishment / Event |
|------|----------------|
| 2019 | Started programming in Zig and Odin |
| 2019 | Wrote CHIP-8 and NES emulators |
| 2019 | Returned to Mogo |
| 2019 | Stepped back into an IC role |
| 2018 | Promoted to Team Lead at Lendesk |
| 2017 | Joined Lendesk as a Senior Software Developer (Ruby/Go) |
| 2016 | Started programming in Go |
| 2015 | Started programming in C (primarily C99) |
| 2014 | Joined Mogo as a Senior Software Developer (Ruby) |
| 2011 | Joined Unbounce as the first employee (Ruby) |
| 2010 | Returned to EA as a junior front-end software developer (ActionScript) |
| 2007 | Joined Gossamer Threads as a full stack web developer (Perl/Javascript) |
| 2007 | Started programming in Perl |
| 2007 | Started using GNU/Linux for development and minor system administration |
| 2005 | Joined EA as a junior software developer (C++) |
| 2005 | Earned Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science |
| 2000 | Started programming in C++ |
| 1998 | Started programming in Pascal and using HTML/Javascript |
