---
date: 2015-10-19
url: /2015/10/19/pc-gaming/
title: Inspired to Share Gaming Experiences
tags: [videogaming]
---

This past weekend was a little bit rough. Dee and I were both feeling really under the weather so we pretty
  much got as little done as possible.  Dee took over responsibilities for dropping Lily off with her folks,
  so I jumped at the opportunity to catch up on a few shows.  Among them was [Jodorowski's Dune](http://www.jodorowskysdune.com/),
  a film I found to be rather inspirational.

For a long time now I've felt rather disillusioned with modern AAA videogames.  My preference is definitely
  for more lo-fi entries and throwback "Retro" games.  Things like 1001 Spikes, Super Meat Boy and more.
  But that's one part of it.  I'm also really intrigued by experience-based games.  Gone Home is one of my
  favorite games of all time.  Games like MirrorMoon EP and Fract OSC are also wonderfully different experiences
  focused on exploration and wonder instead of violence and linear progression.

I've decided to take my inspiration from Jodorowski's Dune and apply it toward the latter interest.  I'm
  currently curating a list of games falling into both style of games mentioned above.  I plan on playing
  through them and writing up my experiences and thoughts.  Concurrently with this I'm going to explore an
  experience-based game design of my own.  I've only just begun to do this, so I make no guarantees on delivery
  whatsoever.  However, I am rather personally motivated to do it and I plan to keep it small and focused.
  I will also be focusing a lot on building technology for it.  My hope is that this configuration of passions
  is sufficient to see the design through to its end.

Well, that's it for now.
See you next time Space Cowboy.