---
title: Linuxing
tags: [lnux, stali, morpheus, crux, tiny-core-linux, lessism, minimalism, musl]
---

Have you ever heard of *suckless*<sup><a href="#2016-05-26_ref1">1</a></sup>? I think I stumbled onto *suckless*
sometime while reading K. Mandla<sup><a href="#2016-05-26_ref2">2</a></sup>, though there's a reasonable
chance it might have happened before then.  *suckless* immediately resonated with me because of their
philosophy<sup><a href="#2016-05-26_ref3">3</a></sup>.  Their software also looks good, very accurately
reflecting the idea of minimalism<sup><a href="#2016-05-26_ref4">4</a></sup>; often requiring you to rethink
how you typically interact with software to do what you want to do.  Sometimes this process of re-evaluation
is fruitful, sometimes maybe less so, but it's always interesting to experience.  They have their own Linux
distribution, called *stali*<sup><a href="#2016-05-26_ref5">5</a></sup> which I really recommend reading about.
I've found a couple of other distributions that are similar in various ways:
CRUX<sup><a href="#2016-05-26_ref6">6</a></sup>, Tiny Core Linux<sup><a href="#2016-05-26_ref7">7</a></sup>
and Morpheus<sup><a href="#2016-05-26_ref8">8</a></sup>.  Morpheus in particular looks to be faithful to the
*suckless* way.  I think CRUX and Tiny Core Linux are both full GNU stacks, so they're less interesting to me
personally, but if I struggle to be productive with the more experimental *stali* and Morpheus, then I wouldn't
hesitate to give them a try.

There are multiple facets to minimalism.  Morpheus and *stali* both adopt non-GNU tools like
*musl*<sup><a href="#2016-05-26_ref9">9</a></sup>, *sbase*<sup><a href="#2016-05-26_ref10">10</a></sup> and
*ubase*<sup><a href="#2016-05-26_ref11">11</a></sup>. (Though *stali* doesn't officially adopt all of these yet.)
I like the idea of this, because GNU tools are often huge, complicated pieces of software with all kinds of
support, sometimes for legacy systems that are practically ancient.  The idea is also novel to me. I had
simply never considered using a runtime libc other than glibc before.  Clang isn't new, so the idea of using a
non-GNU compiler isn't quite as novel, but in practice it's still not common.  Have you ever thought about the
organization of a Linux distribution?  Prior to reading about *stali*, I hadn't. Linux distributions ship with
dynamic libraries in common locations and programs are built to dynamically load these libraries at runtime.
This can cause some problems:

- Programs can, ironically, be larger because they are now requiring all APIs in a given dynamic library even
    if they only use a small subset.
- You have to build your program with a compatible compiler and with the proper library versions.

Armed with this new knowledge, I'm really curious to try building statically linked programs with a non-GCC
compiler using something other than glibc. Tiny C Compiler (TCC)<sup><a href="#2016-05-26_ref12">12</a></sup>
caught my eye, but I had issues doing what I wanted. I can't recall exactly what I encountered. I also gave
Clang a whirl<sup><a href="#2016-05-26_ref13">13</a></sup> but that similarly didn't want to work for me.  I
did get something going with *musl* and GCC<sup><a href="#2016-05-26_ref14">14</a></sup>, but that's clearly
just a piece of what I want.

Okay, sorry, minimalism.  Another aspect here is system initialization. I guess there's a conflict in the
larger Linux community over *systemd*. I've never really been curious about init systems before and my only
prior exposure was invoking `systemctl` or `/etc/init.d/...` or `service [start|stop|restart] ...`.  When I
started exploring Manjaro Linux, I also saw two variants (regardless of the specific desktop environment
being included): with *systemd* or with *openrc*.  I had no idea what that meant at the time, so I didn't
learn anything from it.  *suckless* link to information about *systemd* on their *stali* page and I learned a lot
from that.  I can't say I actively dislike *systemd* because it's in my Arch installation and it appears to be
working well enough. However, I'm now curious about alternative init systems and especially in trying to pare
things down to their simplest minimal subset.  *suckless* have *sinit* and all the distributions I linked above
use something other than *systemd*.

So all of these things are very interesting to me and I've been downloading images and trying to use
alternative Linux systems for just the tiniest amount of time now.  It's a learning experience for sure.  Both
Morpheus and *stali* lack *less*, *more* and various other tools I've come to rely on.  We'll see how things
continue.

----

#### Footnotes

<sub><sup id="2016-05-26_ref1">1</sup><a href="http://suckless.org/">suckless.org</a></sub><br/>
<sub><sup id="2016-05-26_ref2">2</sup><a href="https://kmandla.wordpress.com/">Motho ke motho ka botho</a></sub><br/>
<sub><sup id="2016-05-26_ref3">3</sup><a href="http://suckless.org/philosophy">Suckless Philosophy</a></sub><br/>
<sub><sup id="2016-05-26_ref4">4</sup><a href="https://kmandla.wordpress.com/2010/04/27/lessism-over-minimalism/">Lessism Over Minimalism</a></sub><br/>
<sub><sup id="2016-05-26_ref5">5</sup><a href="http://sta.li/">stali</a></sub><br/>
<sub><sup id="2016-05-26_ref6">6</sup><a href="https://crux.nu/">CRUX</a></sub><br/>
<sub><sup id="2016-05-26_ref7">7</sup><a href="http://tinycorelinux.net/">Tiny Core Linux</a></sub><br/>
<sub><sup id="2016-05-26_ref8">8</sup><a href="http://morpheus.2f30.org/">Morpheus</a></sub><br/>
<sub><sup id="2016-05-26_ref9">9</sup><a href="http://www.musl-libc.org/">musl</a></sub><br/>
<sub><sup id="2016-05-26_ref10">10</sup><a href="http://core.suckless.org/sbase">sbase</a></sub><br/>
<sub><sup id="2016-05-26_ref11">11</sup><a href="http://core.suckless.org/ubase">ubase</a></sub><br/>
<sub><sup id="2016-05-26_ref12">12</sup><a href="http://bellard.org/tcc/">Tiny C Compiler</a></sub><br/>
<sub><sup id="2016-05-26_ref13">13</sup><a href="https://procedural.github.io/post/How-to-compile-C-apps-with-musl-and-Clang/">How to compile C apps with musl and Clang</a></sub><br/>
<sub><sup id="2016-05-26_ref14">14</sup><a href="https://bitbucket.org/GrooveStomp/practice/src/34a14281d75bcf4ce31ba92648d4982c60be883f/2016/05/11/">GCC + musl</a></sub><br/>
