content/post/2018-01-24-takehome_coding_challenges.md, before:

---
date: 2018-01-24
url: 2018/01/24/takehome_coding_challenges
title: "Take-home Coding Challenges"
tags: []
---

I recently went through part of a job interview.  It was interesting.

I had a few calls with different folks within the organization and those were
generally good.  Work history, ambitions, etc.  This was all fairly typical
stuff.

Ultimately I wound up simply not responding to the company.

So what happened?

At this point you've read the title, so you know the answer.  They gave me a
take-home coding challenge.

Now, I'm not ideologically opposed to take-home challenges but this particular
example raised a large red flag for me.  Here are a couple of guidelines in case
you think you want to use a take-home coding challenge at your organization:

- It really cannot require more than just an hour or two of work.
  Anything longer requires compensation pay.  Additionally, some of us simply
  don't have much spare time to commit to working on projects in which we have
  no interest and there is no indication that it will be worthwhile.

- Give reasonable time expectations.
  This coding challenge was described as requiring roughly 10 hours of work, and
  they expected to see it in 2-3 days, or one week at most.
  If you don't know why that's absolutely ridiculous, then you deserve the
  resulting applicants that you attract.

Around a year ago I went through the entire interview process at another
company. That company made similar mistakes and several other, far worse
ones along the way.  I might get into that in a later post.

If you liked reading this, you might enjoy "On whiteboard coding interviews."
<sup><a href="#2018-01-24_ref1">1</a></sup>

----
#### Footnotes
<sub><sup id="2018-01-24_ref1">1</sup><a href="https://richg42.blogspot.ca/2017/11/on-whiteboard-coding-interviews.html">On whiteboard coding interviews</a></sup><br />

Commit message:

Updates to Take-home coding challenges

content/post/2018-01-24-takehome_coding_challenges.md, after:

---
date: 2018-01-24
url: 2018/01/24/takehome_coding_challenges
title: "Take-home Coding Challenges"
tags: [employment, job search]
---

I recently went through part of a job interview.  It was interesting.

I had a few calls with different folks within the organization and those were
generally good.  Work history, ambitions, etc.  This was all fairly typical
stuff.

Ultimately I wound up simply not responding to the company.

So what happened?

At this point you've read the title, so you know the answer: they gave me a
take-home coding challenge.

Now, I'm not ideologically opposed to take-home challenges but this particular
example raised a large red flag for me.  Here are a couple of guidelines in case
you think you want to use a take-home coding challenge at your organization:

- It really cannot require more than just an hour or two of work.  Anything
  longer requires compensation.  Additionally, some of us simply do not have the
  spare time to contribute to an optional coding challenge.  Use the
  probationary period to truly assess coding ability, I'll address this later.

- Give reasonable time expectations.  This coding challenge was described as
  requiring roughly 10 hours of work, and they expected to see it in 2-3 days,
  or one week at most.  See the previous point.

I've got over 11 years experience and have a decently sized code repository
housing several side projects I've worked on.  This is completely public and
explicitly linked from my personal website which itself is explicitly listed on
my CV.  If you are trying to gauge whether I can program or not, well, you have
a large reference in front of you already.  If you need to talk to peers and
managers to get a better picture of how I operate in a professional settings,
then that's simple enough to do.  A take-home coding challenge accomplishes
neither of these goals well.

Around a year ago I went through the entire interview process at another
company. That company made similar mistakes and several other, far worse
ones along the way.  I might get into that in a later post.

If you liked reading this, you might enjoy "On whiteboard coding interviews."
<sup><a href="#2018-01-24_ref1">1</a></sup>

----
#### Footnotes
<sub><sup id="2018-01-24_ref1">1</sup><a href="https://richg42.blogspot.ca/2017/11/on-whiteboard-coding-interviews.html">On whiteboard coding interviews</a></sup><br />
